If you were literally founding a new
company from scratch with the same
mission, how would you execute on that
mission using a fully AI native
approach? If you can't, then you should
find a buyer and then if you really care
about this mission, like go and start
the next carnation of it or people that
work for you, how have you adjusted what
you expect of them to help them be
successful?
>> If you want to cancel all your meetings
for like a day or for an entire week and
just go play around with every AI
product that you think could be relevant
to Air Table, go do it. of the different
functions on a product team, PM,
engineering, design, who has had the
most success being more productive with
these tools. It really does become more
about individual attitude. There's a
strong advantage to any of those three
roles who can kind of cross over into
the other two. As a PM, you need to
start looking more like a hybrid PM
prototyper who has some good design
sensibilities. Do you see one of these
roles being more in trouble than others?
Today, my guest is Howie Lou. Howie is
the co-founder and CEO of Air Table. I'm
having a bunch of conversations on this
podcast with founders who are
reinventing their decade plus old
business in this AI era to help you
navigate this existential transition
that every company and product is going
through right now. Howie and Air Table's
journey is an incredible example of
this. And there's so much to learn from
what Howie shares in this conversation.
We talk about a very interesting trend
that I've noticed that how is very much
an example of of cos almost becoming
individual contributors again getting
into the code building things leading
initiatives themselves the something
that we call the ICEO we also talk about
the very specific skills that he
believes product managers and product
leaders also engineers and designers
need to build to do well in this new
world that we're in also how he
restructured his company into two groups
a fastinking group and a slow thinking
group which allowed their AI investments
to significantly accelerate. If you're
struggling to figure out how to be
successful in this new AI era, this
episode is for you. If you enjoy this
podcast, don't forget to subscribe and
follow it in your favorite podcasting
app or YouTube. Also, if you become an
annual subscriber of my newsletter, you
get a year free of 15 incredible
products including lovable, replet,
bolt, nadent, linear, superhuman,
dcript, whisper flow, gamma, perplexity,
warp, granola, magic patterns, raycast,
chappd, and mobin. Check it out
lennisnewsletter.com and click product
pass. With that, I bring you Howie Lou.
This episode is brought to you by
LucidLink, the storage collaboration
platform. You've built a great product,
but how you show it through video design
and storytelling is what brings it to
life. If your team works with large
media files, videos, design assets,
layered project files, you know how
painful it can be to stay organized
across locations. Files live in
different places. You're constantly
asking, "Is this the latest version?"
Creative work slows down while people
wait for files to transfer. Lucid Link
fixes this. It gives your team a shared
space in the cloud that works like a
local drive. Files are instantly
accessible from anywhere. No
downloading, no syncing, and always up
to-date. That means producers, editors,
designers, and marketers can open
massive files in their native apps, work
directly from the cloud, and stay
aligned wherever they are. Teams at
Adobe, Shopify, and top creative
agencies use LucidLink to keep their
content engine running fast and smooth.
Try it for free at lucidlink.com/lenny.
That's lucid dlk.com/lenny.
Today's episode is brought to you by DX,
the developer intelligence platform
designed by leading researchers. To
thrive in the AI era, organizations need
to adapt quickly. But many organization
leaders struggle to answer pressing
questions like which tools are working?
How are they being used? What's actually
driving value? DX provides the data and
insights that leaders need to navigate
this shift. With DX, companies like
Dropbox, Booking.com, Adion, and
Intercom get a deep understanding of how
AI is providing value to their
developers and what impact AI is having
on engineering productivity. To learn
more, visit DX's website at
getdx.com/lenny.
That's getdx.com/lenny.
>> Howie, thank you so much for being here.
Welcome to the podcast.
>> I'm so excited. Thank you, Lenny. I've
I've been a listener from afar for a
while now.
>> I'm I'm really flattered to hear that.
I'm also very excited. You've been on
quite a journey over the last uh is it
13 years or is it is it longer? like
right yeah right about 13
>> 13 years I imagine there have been a lot
of ups and a lot of downs uh I want to
talk about all those things I want to
talk about a lot of the lessons that
you've learned along the way I want to
start with what I imagine was a a very
surprising down moment in the history of
air tableable this is something that
unfortunately is something I think about
when I think of air tableable I feel
other people maybe feel this way is
there's this tweet that went super viral
uh maybe a couple years ago at this
point where someone just shared all this
data and they're like air table is dead.
They've raised way more money than
they're worth. They're not making enough
to get from underwater.
>> Yeah.
>> Air table. RIP. Uh what happened there?
How much of that was true? How did that
go?
>> Yeah. So very I basically none of it was
true. Uh and um I mean the the
surprising thing to me was how viral
this tweet went when frankly like I
actually looked back at this person's uh
other tweets. I think they they um they
worked at CB Insights. Uh, and the irony
is like that the whole point of that
business is to have like good data, good
data quality around private company
data. and they just like literally had
incorrect numbers by like a a strong
multiple on like what our revenue scale
was, what our growth rate was like, you
know, and and if it gave me some
consolation, I looked back and like this
person had also tweeted about other
companies like Flexport was the last
like kind of takedown tweet they they
had like oh flexport's dead and like you
know their um you know their valuation
is is um you know too high and blah blah
blah. And so I think that the more
surprising thing was just like this
person has been tweeting a bunch of like
spicy takes that are not substantiated
by real data or correct data and yet
like this particular tweet went super
viral and that was the perplexing part
to me. Um, and then I think actually I
think what what uh really gave it legs
was um on the All-In podcast which is
like obviously super popular uh you know
and I listened to it like you know they
they covered they were like oh like you
know latest on on uh this week's news
like you know this tweet about Air Table
what do we think about this and it
almost I think became like um a way to
talk about a broader theme of what
happens to this last generation of
highly valued companies maybe decacorn
companies in this new and at that point
it was like kind of the reset moment for
both public and private markets. Um they
did also issue a correction though. Um
Allin uh did a a follow-up episode a few
few uh I think weeks later saying like
hey like you know we got the numbers
wrong like um you know we we're revising
our case and and kind of a a view on Air
Table.
>> What's that line about how a lie gets
around the world some number of times
before truth has even has time to get
out of bed.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I I think I
learned about um uh memes and morality
very quickly in uh in that experience.
Not a very good social media person, but
uh I think I learned a little more.
>> Yeah, it's tough. Twitter's such an the
incentives are so misaligned. It's just
I need I tweet something people want to
share, not truth. Well, I mean,
especially like I mean I I there's a lot
to like. I would say netnet I like the
post Elon Twitter more than the pre-Elon
Twitter because it it's just bolder and
like I you know I guess I I really
admire bold product execution where
you're not just kind of stuck to like
the current laurels and they made so
many changes but like I do feel like I
get injected into my feed very
sensational content all the time and I
mean it works on me. I'm like, you know,
like I can't help but to like click on
it and engage with it and like, you
know, but it it does I think it does
result in like this kind of content like
really spreading.
>> Yeah. Now, Nikita writing the show, I
don't I don't know if you saw this.
There's a new we don't need to keep
talking about Twitter, but there's a new
feature where you take a screenshot of a
tweet and it has like a huge X.com logo
watermark in the top right.
>> Yeah. Just to like, you know, people are
sharing these tweets all the time. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, man. Never a dull moment over there.
>> For sure.
>> Okay. I want to go in a completely
different direction. something that I'm
really excited to talk to you about,
which is this very uh emerging trend
that I've noticed that I feel like
you're at the forefront of of CEOs
becoming IC's again. It's kind of this
move of uh ICOs,
CEOs getting their hands dirty again,
building again, getting in the weeds,
coding again. Feel like you're again at
the forefront of this. Talk about just
why you've done this, why you think this
is important, and just what that looks
like dayto-day to you versus what your
life was like a few years ago. The
underlying reason for the shift, at
least for me, is that as we started the
company, I was very much in this mode,
right? Like I was literally writing code
both on the back end, thinking about the
real-time data architecture of of our
platform, also the front end, the UX.
Um, and you know, I would argue that
like in that founding moment, like the
initial product market fit finding, um,
and especially for a product that is
like pure software, right? like we
weren't building like a operationally
heavy business like a dog walking
marketplace uh where the tech is only an
afterthought like the tech was the
product right um and in a very meta
sense like air table is the platform for
other people to build their own apps
right so like it's all about the the
tech like the very intimate design
decisions um again both architecturally
and and uh on the front end and the
product UX choices like that is the
product's value prop right like you
can't separate those two you can't say
like okay like I researched search for
the jobs to be done. Here's the
workflow. Here's the process. And then
like okay, some engineer can just build
it as an afterthought. Like it's those
like little decisions and and really be
able to like be at the bleeding edge of
what's possible both in the browser and
with like you know kind of the the
real-time data architecture um that made
the product what it was, right? Uh I
think the same is true for Figma which
um you know actually like had a very
parallel timeline to us like we both
were founded around the same time both
spent two and a half years building the
product um like hands-on uh you know
that early team before launching and you
know when I think now to like both the
era in between that founding moment and
then now as well as like now the the new
kind of genai moment like I think there
was a maturing era of both SAS overall
and air table specifically where you
know as you scale up and you kind to
learn how to build, you know, teams and
organizations and like you have to kind
of like scale up stuff that's not
actually those intimate details, but
process and people and so on. You kind
of get, you know, by default further and
further away from those details, right?
And maybe for some businesses that's
fine because like no longer is it about
finding like the the details that make
for a magical new product market fit and
it is really just about scaling up an
existing thing that works, right? um and
using what I would call like more blunt
instruments uh to kind of scale it up,
right? Like a more blunt roadmap, a more
blunt, you know, kind of go to market
execution strategy. Regardless, I think
that now we're we're entering this
moment where like every certainly every
software product in my opinion has to be
refounded because like AI is such a
paradigm shift. It's not even like just
like the shift from desktop to mobile or
on-prem to cloud where that was more
like a a a very one-time and somewhat
predictable change in form factor. Like
I think AI is so rapidly evolving that
with every evolution like every new
model release and every new type of like
capability that's released, it actually
implies novel form factors and novel
like UX patterns to be invented to fully
capitalize on those capabilities. And so
like to be continuous uh continuously
relevant and to kind of refine product
market fit in this era I think you have
to be in the details like there is no
like you know looking at it from 10,000
foot view and saying oh we're just going
to throw a bunch of people at this
problem. It's actually understanding
like what is the right product
experience and the right business model
that backs it up um and the right you
know everything else to support that
engine to take advantage of the
capabilities in our product domain.
>> You have this phrase somewhere where you
you talk about being the chief taste
maker.
>> Yeah.
>> And to do that you have to do exactly
what you're describing.
>> That's right. I mean, I think that and
like I would also say like it's actually
now also hard to taste the soup without
participating in like at least some part
of creating the soup, right? And like
meaning with AI, you can kind of look at
the final product and say, "Okay, like
this this feels right or not or like it
feels like we're being bold enough and
we're we're properly, you know,
productizing these new capabilities."
Um, but I think like to really
understand, you know, the solution space
of what's possible, you kind of have to
be in the details, right? I mean,
literally like you can't just look at,
you know, kind of screenshots or like a
pre-recorded video of like a new product
feature. Like AI is something you have
to play with. And ideally, you're
playing with both the like kind of
packaged up, you know, app or solution
that you've built with it, but you're
also playing around directly with the
underlying primitives. You're using the
models either via API or via like a chat
interface. like you're really pushing
them to the boundaries and like because
that's the only way that you really
understand what these new ingredients
it's like as a chef you just gained
access to like amazing new ingredients
but you have to like actually kind of
get comfortable with them to put them
into a new dish.
>> And we had um Dan Shipper on the
podcast. He runs uh this newsletter and
podcast to put out a company called
Every. And he they work with companies
to help them become more AI uh
successful and adopt AI and all that
stuff. And he I asked him what's the
what's the signal that a company will
have success adopting AI and seeing huge
productivity gains and he said it's does
the CEO use chat GPT or claw daily.
>> Yeah.
>> And I feel like you're describing
exactly hourly
>> literally hourly like or you know
>> you could even like have a measure of
like inference uh like costs right like
the equivalent underlying like inference
compute cycles right how many tokens
they use. But yeah, I mean I I'm proud
to say like I am uh I'm I'm pretty sure
I'm still the um I I just checked this
recently, but like uh I take pride in
being the number one most expensive in
inference cost user of Air Table AI. Uh
not just within our own company, but I
think for a long time I was globally
across all our customers as well. Like I
mean I'm just I'm I'm like well I mean
like I'm extremely intentionally
wasteful. uh wasteful in the sense of
like you know I'll do something that
costs like maybe hundreds of dollars of
like actual inference cost right like
for instance you know doing a lot of LLM
calls against like long you know kind of
transcripts of let's say sales calls to
extract different types of insights like
here's the product apps identify or
here's summaries etc um and we we also
have now a capability that's basically
like an LLM map reduce so effectively
even if you can't fit like you know the
entire corpus of content into one LLM M
call because the the context window
limitations will map through like all of
this content and break it up into chunks
and then like perform an LLM call on
each one and then perform an aggregation
LLM call on those chunks. Very
expensive, right? Because you're
basically running like a highly
expensive model against a lot of data
and then running it again on the
aggregates of that. But like for me, you
know, like hundreds of dollars spent on
this exercise is trivial compared to the
potential strategic value of like having
better insights. It's as if like a
really really smart chief of staff has
gone through and read every single sales
call like transcript that we've had in
the past year and giving me like you
know you know kind of very uh astute
product insights, marketing insights,
like you know kind of positioning
insights and segmentation insights. Um
like that's invaluable, right? like you
could pay a consulting firm like
literally millions of dollars to get
that quality of work. So like to me I
still think the like the value versus
the actual cost of AI when applied
greedily but smartly like it's just it's
it's it's a crazy ratio and like more
people should be like aggressively
throwing comput cycles at these very
high value problems
>> until somebody tweets how you're eating
uh costing the company so much on on AI
compute and you guys are going to be
underwater.
>> Just kidding. like how we have
personally taken down um the uh the cash
flow profile of the business like
>> so okay so CEOs founders hearing this
they're probably like okay I I I should
probably start doing this what is this
actually look like I imagine you still
have a lot of other stuff you got
one-on- ones you got all these like how
do you actually how have you changed
your day-to-day to do this yeah so I
actually cut my one-on-one roster u by
default uh and the idea is I'm not is
not that I don't want to spend I'm
one-on-one with people, but rather that
I found that the um just like having
more standing one-on- ons actually
precludes me from, you know, engaging in
more timely topics, right? Like I like
to think of um you know, the best types
of meetings as like very um urgency
driven and like, you know, there's some
timely topic like you know, you've
you've discovered some insight. Maybe I
talked to some new startup, right? um
and uh you know I learned something from
from their product or their approach and
I want to bring that into how we're
thinking about like a new feature at Air
Table or even just like plant the seed
with like you know some different like
you know EPD people within Air Table
like I want to make most meetings uh
very timely and very informed by like
real alpha right there's got to be some
kind of value and insight uh to seed
that with now in addition to that I'll
supplement with like you know when I'm
in person uh you know with someone like
I want to carve out time for like a you
know a proper like catchup and like less
structured less less like timely and
just more of like you know building a
relationship with a human but I actually
find that like you know having that com
it's almost a barbell approach where
it's like you know if you're going to
spend time with somebody in a free form
way like actually do it in a high
quality not like forced weekly ritual
way like go for a longer lunch or coffee
walk or whatever um in person when you
can uh maybe that's like a once every
month or two kind of thing and then like
the the inetweens are either topical So
we do have standing meetings for you
know like now um we have a a weekly
basically um sprint check-in on all of
our AI execution stuff which now is like
half the company or half the um EPDOR is
working on AI capabilities. we're trying
to ship very quickly like you know I
basically want to always ask the
question like how would an AI native
company like a cursor winds surf etc
like how would they execute right and
are we executing as fast as them and
taking advantage of like all the new
stuff as well as them so like bringing
that level of like kind of intensity and
urgency to like how I spend my time
within that's been the main the biggest
shift uh for me. what's a change you've
made to help the company move faster and
and match that sort of pace?
>> Yeah, so I mean we did do a reorg uh of
uh the EPO or so. So before we had we've
gone through a few different um kind of
reorgs over the past call it four years.
The the you know kind of original state
as we just kind of proliferated I think
by default or incrementally was that we
had a bunch of groups that were each
responsible for like a feature or a
surface area. So there was a group
responsible for search within our table
and there was a group responsible for
like mobile experience and you know so
on and so forth right and you know that
has its benefits like you know obviously
like that team can go and like you know
get really ramped up on that part of the
codebase that part of the product but it
has the disadvantage of you know you you
tend to think incrementally when
everyone's remitt is actually like a
feature that they incrementally improve
by definition as opposed to thinking
about like a mission or like a outcome
goal right that might need to you know
uh coordinate you know dramatic changes
across a wider set of of uh surface
areas instead of just like each one kind
of incrementally uh improving and so we
reorged um initially to basically
different um business units effectively
right so uh I know Airbnb has done like
kind of the the functional to GM you
know back etc this was more like saying
look we have an enterprise business and
the mo there is more about like
scalability can we support like the
larger scale scale data sets and use
cases. Do you have the core capabilities
needed to be able to like push out an
app to maybe 10,000 seats or 20,000
seats for product operations, right? Um,
so a lot of architecture, a lot of
scale, that kind of work. We would have
a uh what we call the teams pillar,
which is more about self-s serve, like
kind of the product UX, like how easy it
is to to adopt the product, on board,
share, do all the kind of like basic
functionality, an AI pillar, solutions
pillar, and and basically impra. And
what we found though with that approach
is that there was still um you know
there was more kind of uh holistic bets
being made. So like you know the team's
pillar could think not just about one
feature but like the overall onboarding
experience really like really think
about nux you know in a way that touched
multiple parts of the product. Um, but
it still felt like it wasn't, especially
as as we started to execute more on AI
stuff, like it wasn't, you know,
allowing us to aggressively and quickly
move as a AI native company would,
right? Like I mean, when you look at,
you know, the cursors of the world,
they're shipping like major new stuff
every week. And like you know it's not
like oh well we have like this separate
you know kind of road map for enterprise
we have this road map for for uh this
group and you know it just feels like
one um one cohesive product that's
shipping at a break neck pace. So we did
this uh recent reorg where now we have
the what I call like the fast thinking
uh group which officially is called AI
platform uh but it really means like we
want to just ship a bunch of new uh
capabilities on a near weekly basis um
and each of them should be like truly
awesome value right like you should drop
your jaw at like how awesome it is to
use this new capability in in Air Table
and then separately we have the slow
thinking group that's not me meant to be
like better or worse like it's it's
literally like you need fast and slow
thinking and the common sense uh to
operate right like as a human
>> I have that book behind me
>> yeah I love that book um but uh but slow
thinking is like it's just a different
mode of planning and executing right
it's like more deliberate bets that
require more premeditation right like we
can't just like ship a new piece of
infrastructure that has a lot of like uh
data complexity uh like you know our our
data store hyperdb that um now can
handle like multiundred million record
data sets like that's not something you
ship in a week right in a hacky
prototype So we now have these two
separate parts of the company and I
actually think what's what's really cool
is like they they actually complement
each other very well right because like
the the fast execution the AI stuff you
know that creates the top of funnel
excitement that that also you know kind
of inspires new use cases and new users
to come to air table including in large
enterprise right like you know
enterprises can use this stuff too it's
not just like a SMB thing but like the
slow thinking basically allows those
initial seeds of adoption to sprout and
grow into much larger deployments.
Whereas I think a lot of the challenge
for many of the AI native companies I've
seen is that they could have like a very
wide top of funnel like get all of this
AI tourist traffic you know a lot of
interest a lot of like kind of like you
know early usage but then you know
sometimes that the challenge is how do
you like turn that into more durable you
know growth and and get each of those
adoption seeds to retain and expand over
time.
>> That is super cool. I've never heard of
this way of structuring teams. the fast
thinking thinking fast thinking slow the
conan it's so interesting for the fast
thinking team do you find there specific
archetypes of people that are successful
there is it a lot of like bringing in
new people that are not just used to the
way of working at our table what do you
find
>> we we have a mix so you know we brought
in uh I mean we're always hiring right
like there was never a point in um in
the company's life where we stopped
hiring and that you know candidly even
when we had to do uh two riffs right
that that significantly you know kind of
reduced boost our headcount, you know,
we had just like way too quickly grown
and overscaled the business at a certain
point. Um, but even when we did our
riffs, we were still actively recruiting
and hiring. Um, you know, in I mean
every major department, but especially
in uh in EPD, because you know, it's
always been my belief that like you you
all like it would be arrogant to say
that we have all the people we ever need
already in in the uh roster today,
right? Like we're always going to need
to find new fresh perspectives, new
skill sets, etc. Um and so you know we
we've continued to hire. Um I think
we've learned as we've gone along of
like you know what is the ideal type of
hire and you know we've done some aqua
hires and learned from that as well. Um
but I think the fast thinking part it
really just requires a a lot of like um
somebody who's able to operate with a
lot of autonomy right like you know
who's entrepreneurial in nature. Now it
doesn't mean like they have to literally
be a former founder. I know some
companies are, you know, like Ripink for
instance does a lot of actual
acquisitions and gets actual founders
into the company. Like we found that,
you know, that that's great and we've
done some of that as well, but like also
there are some really really capable
people who like we didn't literally have
to like acquire in and yet they're just
able to like think full stack about the
problem and like the user experience.
Problem not just meaning like you know
the the technical layers of the problem,
but like also like what is the wow
factor? we're trying to create, right?
Um, so tangibly like you know um we're
we're doing this new thing that's about
to ship where you know not only can you
describe the app you want to build and
then iterate on it with you know kind of
our conversational agent omni but um and
it builds it with like the existing air
table platform capabilities but um we're
also giving it the ability to actually
do codegen to extend those apps with
like really final mile very bespoke
functionality or like uh visuals right
so you could say like hey generate me a
very very specific type of map view with
like this kind of like uh heat mapping
and this kind of like you know icons and
when you click it do this and like
that's a capability that like there's so
much ambiguity in some of the design
decisions around it like you know um and
and you have to blend that design
thinking with some of the technical
constraints of like what can the AI
models actually oneshot effectively and
if not like how do you add in like the
right human workflow for approval and
review and then reprompting and so on.
So just so many different like design
decisions and you need somebody who can
like really think full stack about that
kind of product and is not overwhelmed
by that you know kind of openness but
like relishes in it.
>> I was actually playing with it uh before
we started chatting. I made a really
cute startup CRM.
>> Oh that's awesome.
>> Yeah. Started talking Omniver here. It's
like the colors are beautiful. That was
that's what's standing out to me right
now. I mean there is um I will say like
just as a as a note um you know I
consider myself like at my core like a
product UX person right like that that's
my like passion and you know everything
else I've had to learn to to kind of run
this company uh is almost like what was
a necessary you know part of the the
journey like you know but but like my
real passion is thinking about product
UX right and I you know I I think of UX
in a deeper sense than just like the
cosmetic like design like you know what
you could put into a framer you know
kind of prototype like I think of it as
like literally like what should this
product do and how should it represent
that and behave for the user that is the
product in my opinion right um and of
course then you have to figure out like
technically what's possible and how to
implement it but like I think to me um
what's under uh executed today in the
world of AI products is like there's so
many awesome capabilities of AI and Most
of them are really under merchandise and
there's like very poor actually visual
or otherwise metaphors or affordances
given to users to help represent or
understand like what those underlying
capabilities are right like I mean Chach
obviously like you know extremely
successful product so not knocking it at
all but like you come in and you just
get this like completely blank chat box
right by default and now they have
suggestions underneath and and so on but
like you know the product UX part of me
is just like craving
more visual metaphors or colors or some
kind of like use the canvas of a web
interface to and and all the richness um
you know interaction you create there to
better represent or or show all the
different things that you can do with uh
you know wi with the underlying model
right um and so that's something we've
tried to do with air table is like show
like all of the different states and
like use colors even to play those up
>> it's interesting how much of this
connects with I just had Nick Turley on
the podcast. He's head of chat GBT at
OpenAI and he had these two really
interesting insights that resonate uh
directly with what you're describing.
One is he has this concept of whenever
something is being worked on, he's
always asking is this maximally
accelerated? How do we move faster? Is
that if this is important, what would
allow us to move faster? Yeah. And I
love that that's one of the themes
that's coming up as you talk is just
this creating this very clear sense of
speed and you even call it the fast
thinking team like you are going to move
fast.
>> Yeah. And then the other one is just
this insight that with AI, you often
don't know what people what what it can
do and what people want to do with it
until it's out. So there's this need to
get it out and that'll tell you what it
should be. I I couldn't agree more with
with both of those and particularly on
the second point. You know, I think it's
interesting like clearly there have been
companies um that have both both been
successful in PLG and like kind of more
salesled, you know, kind of distribution
for AI products like you know the the
most notable ones I can think of are
like Palanteer with their EIP
deployments like that's obviously very
salesled. You're not PLG into a
Palunteer deployment but even you know
like companies like Harvey and and uh
and so on like you know they're doing
very well and like it's primarily from
what I understand like salesled, right?
You're not self-s serving into a Harvey
instance at a law firm. Um, and yet like
to me the the best way to get AI value
out there is experientially, right? And
so like you can kind of get that in a
sales motion. You can like, you know,
show a demo, maybe you can get do a PC,
but like it's so much more powerful when
you just open up the doors and say
anyone who wants to come and sign up and
trial this product like can, right? And
uh I think you know it's to me it's like
you know kind of a real proof point that
like chatbt is arguably like the most
successful uh you know kind of PLG
product of all time right just in terms
of like sheer scale of users like they
announced 700 million like MA is it MAUs
or week uh I think
>> weekly active users 10% of humans on
earth use it weekly.
>> That's insane. In like how many years
right like a few years?
>> Three years under three years.
>> Yeah. And and so like I mean literally
that that is just like the most insane
ramp curve and I don't think they would
have gotten there if like you couldn't
just come in and literally try the
product out like and and you know kind
of as a little bit of a rebuttal of the
point I made earlier where like I think
Chhat PT doesn't do a ton right now uh
and and even earlier like they they did
even less to like expose all the
different ways you could use it but they
just made it so frictionless to just try
it for yourself that you as a user could
come in and just literally ask it
anything and see how I did and of course
like you know people in the early days
tried to stump it and showed like oh
look see it's not that smart like it
doesn't answer this this hard question
really well but like clearly the magical
like you know kind of nature of it still
appealed to you enough you like
everybody used it and so I think um you
know I do have a view like we've gone
through that whole you know kind of arc
of we started PLG I'd like to think air
tableable was one of the the kind of PLG
darlings of of our era and anyway I kind
of started moving up market and like
doing more uh sales execution, although
that was still always on top of like
usually PLG within an enterprise. Uh but
we started doing more and more sales uh
execution. We still have that that's
still really uh important for our
business. But I also think like me
personally like one of my goals is to
shift my attention back into that kind
of like you know builderled adoption and
like literally showing in the product um
experientially not telling in like a
deck the value that you can get from
from AI and Air Table right like I think
that's so key and it's it's you know
it's nux but it's also more than that
it's not just like literally how do you
onboard somebody into the product it's
like literally thinking about the entire
product experience itself right and in
our case We just like made the entire
product experience AIcentric, right?
Like it used to be that like you know we
had kind of this like secondary thing
that you could ask questions to the
assistant sidebar. We now made our agent
the default way of doing everything in
Air Table and like you know it's like
now the the Air Table app as you know it
is almost like an artifact that's
manipulated by um you know and kind of
like can be tool used by the agent.
>> Let me follow that thread. So if you go
to airtable.com today, it looks it looks
like basically all the other AI app
building sites now. It's just tell me
what you want to build. Thoughts on that
as just like a thing everyone's starting
to do. Is there what do you think comes
next? Is this does is it working well?
There's clearly a an incredible magic to
uh vibe coding and and app building with
AI, right? And um this is actually you
know like a a prime illustration uh in
my view of of uh that that const talked
about a second ago which is you know as
capabilities of these underlying models
evolve the form factor and the product
UX also needs to evolve with it right
and so like the earliest models like the
kind of original chat like GP 3.5 uh you
know kind of era models were were not
nearly as smart as the current models
right um and so like you couldn't really
ask it to oneshot a more complicated
ated chunk of code or or certainly not
like a full stack app and expect it to
work. Um and so the right form factor
for leveraging those models in a
software creation context was GitHub
copilot, right? It's like autocomplete a
few lines of code at a time, right? But
you know, you couldn't chat to it and
tell it like build me this entire app
from scratch, right? And I think that
like as the models got better and
better, you saw that the new form
factors emerge. Like I think cursor did
a great job of like being an early
pioneer of this more agentic way of
leveraging the models to to do more
complex things and generate more, you
know, kind of larger chunks of code. And
now with composer, you can literally
just go into cursor and build an app
from scratch, like build me a 3D shooter
game from scratch and just watch it go
and like create all the files and, you
know, fill out each file and then like,
you know, like the thing actually runs
some of the time. And so to me this is
you know where the world is going the
models are clearly getting smarter and
you know if you think about the original
vision of air table it was always about
democratizing software creation like we
just strongly believed that you know the
number of people who use apps uh far
outweighs the number of people who can
actually like build their own or or
manipulate apps and like harness like
custom software to their advantage.
>> That sounds very familiar. very familiar
these days.
>> Yeah, exactly. And and so like I think
this is like it's a different means to
the same end. And so like it's almost
like we have to lean into this because
if we started Air Table today like this
is what we would be all in on. Now I
think that the advantage that that we
have um and like I do think you have to
be realistic to yourself um especially
as as a uh as a company that predates
Genai and now has to kind of find your
new footing in the AI landscape. Like
you can't fool yourself and just say
like, "Okay, I'm going to throw in some
AI stuff on the landing on the marketing
site, you know, put in a couple AI
features and call it a day." Like I
think you actually have to take a clean
slate uh approach to saying like, how
would our mission best be expressed?
Like if you were literally founding a
new company from scratch with the same
mission, how would you execute on that
mission using a fully AI native
approach, right? And like I and and and
then by the way, like do you have useful
building blocks? um you know that you
can leverage from your existing product
uh and your existing business or are you
literally worse off having this legacy
asset versus starting something from
scratch and like I don't think the
answer is always yes or no. I think it
just depends on the product. And if you
can't really introspect and say like,
look, I think I'm better off doing this
with the pieces that I have for my
existing business and product, then I
think you should sell, right? Like you
should find a buyer for that company and
then go and and like, you know, if you
really care about this mission, like go
and start the next carnation of it,
right? In my case, like I I I really,
you know, thought about this and like
really feel strongly that the building
blocks that we have like these no code
components actually do allow us to
execute better on this vision than if I
had to start from scratch, right?
Meaning like the problem with vibe
coding especially if we're building
business apps. So I should clarify that
like you know we want to democratize
software creation but specifically we
are focused on business apps, right?
We're not trying to be the platform
where you create like a cool viral
consumer game. this is for like your
CRM, right? Or if you want to build an
inventory management system as a small
restaurant or a a lawyer trying to build
like a case management system, like
that's what we've always been been uh
focused on. And I think in this uh AI
native world, clearly you should be able
to generate those apps agentically. And
yet, if you have an agent that has to
generate every single bit of that app
from scratch, from code, it's going to
be very unreliable. There's going to be
bugs. There's going to be data and
security issues. And then you're also
going to have a context collapse as it
just cannot manage all of the code that
it's written basically as the app gets
more and more complex. Right? And what
we actually have are basically these
primitives that the agent can manipulate
and use without having to like literally
write the code from scratch to represent
like here's a beautiful CRUD interface
on top of the data layer, right? Like
ours is real time and collaborative and
really rich and has collaboration on it.
And by the way, here's all these other
view types and a layout engine for a
custom interface, you know, uh a layout,
right? Or automations and business
logic. And so it's almost like um in
programming terms like the Air Table
pieces in our Lego kit today can be used
by this agent as almost like a more
expressive DSL like a domain specific
language to build business apps instead
of literally having to write everything
down to like the SQL and HTML and
JavaScript to build every part of that
app from scratch. And so like if we can
combine the best of both worlds, like we
have these very reliable, highquality
Lego pieces, now an agent can go and
like assemble them for you instead of
you just using the guey to do that. And
by the way, if you do want to fall back
to the guey, there's a really great, you
know, kind of way for the non-technical
user to still understand and participate
in what's going on. Whereas if you're
not technical, you can't inspect the
code underneath a vzero or logable or
revollet app, right? Like it's just kind
of opaque to you. And if you can't
reprompt it to get what you want, you're
kind of stuck. Um, you know, this is
much more akin to like a developer using
cursor can generate lots of code but
then can still drop back to the IDE to
edit and and manipulate it to the final,
you know, kind of production ready
state. So like that's that's kind of the
the play that we're making. And if I
didn't fully and truly believe like, you
know, we have a better shot at doing it
with our existing product, like I
wouldn't be running this company in its
form today. I'm talking to a lot of
founders that are going through the
journey you're going on which is we've
had a business for a decade AI emerged
and wow we got to figure out something
that works that could work even better
and so I'm trying to pull out the
threads that are consistently working
across these journeys because I think a
lot of companies are trying to figure
this out. So, one that you just touched
on is just if you were to start today,
what would you do? Like what would that
business be? Plus, how can how can do we
have an unfair advantage with the thing
we've done in the past? That feels like
an important ingredient.
>> And then the other circling back to
stuff you've shared already. There's
just uh just like creating a sense of
urgency and pace and getting people uh
to understand this is how things move in
AI and we need to create this fast
thinking team. I love that metaphor and
framing. And then there's the point you
made about just talking to AI regularly
as the founder feels like an important
element just like to truly be this ICEO
talking to AI working with AI regularly.
>> Just on that note a little bit more what
just to give people a sense of what this
looks like dayto-day. So you're talking
to Omni all day trying to under flex the
power of what you can do and iterate on
it. Is there anything else you're doing
dayto-day that helps you figure out what
to do for the business? one, I try to
use as many different AI products,
including not Air Table, right, like as
I can. Um, and both literally for the
novelty factor and just like, you know,
some new cool demo comes out like uh
Runway released their like immersive
world uh you know, kind of engine,
right? And um and so like I'm going to
go try that out, right? like when uh
Sesame AI put out their like cool like
kind of interactive voice voice chat um
you know uh uh you know demo like I
tried that out because like even though
we don't have a direct and near-term
like um you know kind of uh need for
like really um realistic and and
interruptible like kind of voice mode uh
where it's not as core to our
capabilities like I just want to
understand and like get a feel for
everything that's out there right and I
try to invent little like kind of almost
like side projects of my own to have a a
real kind of reason to use these
products. Like, you know, oh, cool. What
if I
were to take like a what what if I were
to like try to create like a funny
little like um you know, like a short a
funny video short, right? Using a
combination of like hey gen avatars with
like a script like a comical script
generated by AI, right? And maybe it'll
be on like an interesting topic. So I'll
do like deep research on the topic with
chach and pull together the results have
it composed like you know kind of a
little
>> Did you actually do this? Is there
something like that? That's literally an
example of some like just you know a fun
weekend project and like to be honest
like these things only take you like an
hour right if you're if you become kind
of pre pretty proficient with using the
products like they're all so easy to use
like you can literally do the deep
research thing you know kick off a query
make a coffee come back in 20 minutes
okay like let me let me prompt it to
like generate me some dialogue. Uh, it's
a little bit like what Notebook LM does
for you out of the box. But sometimes I
like to just like do it myself, right?
And then, okay, let me take the script
and like cut it up and like, you know,
turn it into a hey gen avatar and then
download the video and then like play
it, right? Like, and just for fun,
right? I'm not like trying to make make
that into an actual like, you know, kind
of YouTube like video business. But but
I think like coming up with like these
different like fun weekend projects is a
really useful construct to like force
myself to actually try these products in
a more than just like a twitchclick way.
And you know what what it gives me is
like a like it's not just understanding
the models which is also very very
important right like GB 5 came out
yesterday and like playing around with
it a bunch uh just on like a variety of
different like personal use cases um you
know but like there's a difference
between just understanding the model but
then also understanding like the product
form factors in which they can be placed
right meaning like you know when you
apply the model in a more structured way
right um you know when you apply the
model with different tool calling than
maybe what chach has in its kind of like
out of the box form. You know when you
apply it with like you know kind of a
more agentic workflow again that might
be different from like what chat gives
you out of the box like that's when you
kind of learn like you know you really
get to inspire yourself on like one of
the product form factors that these new
models can take. So like and and plus by
the way like I find it to be really fun.
Like there is a to me like a delight and
entertainment value to just using AI
period because like a it's it's it's not
it's not like perfectly predictable. So
I think the element of like you're not
quite sure what you're going to get, you
know, it's like a box of chocolates. Uh
you know uh and and b like it always
blows my mind just to think about like
wow like you know five years ago we
didn't have any of this stuff, right?
like you know AI was like okay like it's
like we can do predictive analytics it's
like you know there's some like
basically very advanced you know kind of
regressions that we can run with with AI
but like it looked nothing like this
right in it in its current form and it's
just like actually super fun in my
opinion to get to play around with all
the different types of products that
that uh that come out. So I think that
is a big part of it. um you know because
on the point about like the pace of the
world moving so much faster in AI than
any other landscape it like you know in
SAS you know in the mature SAS era like
it was important to study your
competition right like if you were
building a SAS company you'd be crazy
not to follow Salesforce right um every
like year and see what the you know the
major releases they're putting out are
or service now or you know so on like
this is the equivalent of that but
there's major new releases and products
and and so on like every week, right?
Not like every year. And so I just think
you have to stay a breast of all of it
all. And combining this with our point
earlier of like a lot of this has to be
experience, not just like read. Like you
can't just read like the write up on
TechCrunch or or you know even a tweet
about like a new capability. Like you
kind of have to try it to really get a
sense of like what it is. Today's
episode is brought to you by Anthropic,
the team behind Claude. I use Claude at
least 10 times a day. I use it for
researching my podcast guests, for
brainstorming title ideas for both my
podcast and my newsletter, for getting
feedback on my writing and all kinds of
stuff. Just last week, I was preparing
for an interview with a very fancy
guest. And I had Claude tell me, "What
are all the questions that other podcast
hosts have asked this guest so that I
don't ask them these questions?" How
much time do you spend every week trying
to synthesize all of your user research
insights, support tickets, sales calls,
experiment results, and competitive
intel? Claude can handle incredibly
complex multi-step work. You can throw a
100page strategy document at it and ask
it for insights, or you can dump all
your user research and ask it to find
patterns. With Cloud 4 and the new
integrations, including Cloud 4 Opus,
the world's best coding model, you get
voice conversations, advanced research
capabilities, direct Google Workspace
integration, and now MCP connections to
your custom tools and data sources.
Claude just becomes part of your
workflow. If you want to try it out, get
started at claude.ai/enny.
And using this link, you get an
incredible 50% off your first 3 months
of the pro plan. That's claude.ai/lenny.
AI/ Lenny for people that work for you
across Air say the product team PMs
maybe engineers designers how have you
adjusted what you expect of them to help
them be successful in this new world.
one is, you know, really, really, really
stressing this idea of like go play with
this stuff. And I mean, when I say play,
I really mean play like in in the
psychological sense of like, you know,
it's there's a difference when like you
go in and you're kind of just trying to
check the box and like get a job done,
right? There's a difference when like
you come in with a curiosity and like
you you're kind of like exploring,
right? And it's both more fun and
energizing, but also I think like you
learn more through that, right? And so
like I've really tried to stress the
value of play with these AI products and
I kind of you know try to lead by
example by like literally going and like
sharing out links or or uh screenshots
like you know of the things that I'm
doing in these various products. So like
you know as an example you know like I
uh will go into um you know like what
one of the um uh prototyping tools and
show like hey like you know uh I built a
marketing landing page for you know this
new uh capability we're launching. I
kind of created like a landing page for
it in Replet, let's say. And now I'm
sharing that link instead of, you know,
what typically like we would have done
in the past is like, okay, we're going
to write a doc about it and then share
the doc. I'm just going to show you like
an actual landing page with like visuals
and everything in there, right? Um or
like I'll share like uh you know the
actual link to my deep research reports
or like instead of me writing a perfect
memo on a topic like I'll actually just
like prompt my way into getting like a
chat thread uh or a chat output that
basically covers all the content that I
care about and maybe even like ask it to
like okay summarize this all into like a
final, you know, kind of like memo
output and then intentionally share that
rather than expose the fact that like
I'm using AI in this way and here's
literally how I'm prompting it so you
can follow along as you know, but really
trying to encourage everyone to like go
and just play with these products. And
I've even said, look, if anyone wants to
just literally block out a day or
frankly even a week and like like um
have the ultimate uh excuse like you can
use like you know you you could say that
I told you to do it, right? Like if you
want to cancel all your meetings for
like a day or for an entire week and
just go play around with every product
AI product that you can find that you
think could be relevant to Air Table, go
do it like period. Um so I think that's
the most important thing is like this
this play this experimentation. I think
there's also a lot of other you know
kind of shifts in how we execute uh
prototypes over decks. um you know like
I I want to see like actual interactive
demos because like again like it's hard
to to you know in a deck or in a PRD you
could say like okay well we're going to
make Omni really good at handling this
kind of app building okay those are just
words the real proof is in the pudding
of like okay let me try it out on a few
like realistic prompts I can imagine and
in a demo in a real prototype you can
like instantly you know try it out on
realistic rather than golden pathy
scenarios um and see how it feels too
like is Does it feel too slow? Like do
we need to expose more of the the
reasoning or steps, you know, kind of um
you know that that are happening behind
the scenes, create a progress bar or
something like that. But like it's
really hard to get that feel of the
product with anything but like a
functional prototype that really does in
an open-end way, you know, like use the
the AI to to do whatever um you know,
you put in. So, you know, I think it's
it's more like a
um like experimentation playground. It
feels like uh how we need to execute
versus I think in the past it's
sometimes felt like a more like
deterministic resourcing and and like
kind of timelines view of execution,
right? Like we're going to put this many
people on this problem and this is the
8week timeline to this milestone and
we're going to ship in a quarter from
now. And like I think now the whole
thing is just like a lot more
experimentation and iteration driven.
>> Of the different functions on a product
team, PM, engineering, design, who has
had the most success being more
productive with these tools and how do
you think this will impact each of these
three functions over time? What I found
is that it really does become more about
individual attitude and maybe some like
um you know polymathism like you know
there's a strong uh advantage to any of
those three roles who can kind of cross
over into the other two right like kind
of the the hybrid unicorn types right so
if you're a designer who can be just
technical enough to kind of be dangerous
and and understand a little bit of like
how these models work and you know um
like how does tool calling work and uh
and all of this stuff like then you can
actually design a concept or even
prototype a concept in including in
these prototyping tools. um that that's
much more interesting and maybe
realistic than if you're just stuck in
kind of the flat like let me put
something in a static design right um
concept right because uh I think you
know designs have to be more interactive
like that the whole the the the value of
the product um and the product
functionality is in the interaction of
it right like you know think about the
design of chachki again it's like you
know it's the most basic design you
could possibly imagine the real design
actually is happening underneath
underneath the hood in how it responds
to different queries, right? And what
happens after you fire off a prompt,
right? Um, so you know, I think like I
found that there are people within each
of these functions like there are
engineers who are very good at thinking
about product and experience and like
you know kind of can go and prototype
out like the whole thing. There are
designers who can kind of do do the same
even if they can't literally code. They
can prototype something out like
literally using a prototyping tool. And
I think that's where like AI tooling is
also giving more advantage to people who
can think in this way by equipping them
with an alternative to actually having
to go through the long hoops of learning
CS right and then PMs as well. I think
like there are some PMs who are like
really getting into the technical
details and studying up on like you know
how does this stuff work and actually
getting hands-on rather than seeing
their role as you know kind of writing
documents writing PRDS. Do you see one
of these roles uh I don't know being
more in trouble than others just like
you need fewer of the these people in
the future potentially? I think overall
you can get more done with fewer people.
And that's not to say like, you know, we
want to go and like like make the team
smaller, but rather like like the really
cool thing for for uh us and I think a
lot of other companies is
not like you have a finite set of things
you need to do and execute on from a
product standpoint. And okay, like now I
can do that with a tenth of people. I
mean you could do that in a lot of cases
but like for us maybe it's also because
we're a very meta product right like we
are the app platform with which you can
build now any AI app with AI right the
apps themselves leverage AI capabilities
at runtime whether it's to generate
imagery for a creative production
workflow or you know kind of leveraging
deep research um or AI based like um you
know kind of crawling of the web to
search for companies that match a
certain criteria for your deal flow app
right or something like like we can
effectively leverage all of these
different AI capabilities in this this
kind of like app platform because by
definition we're enabling our customers
to build apps that have this wide range
of AI capabilities but because of that
it's like we have a you know kind of
almost infinite like set of possible AI
capabilities that we could execute on
right and I'm always telling the team
like look like the great news is like we
have it's like we have all these fruit
trees and Like there's so many crazy
lowhanging fruit, right? Like and you
got literally like massive watermelons
like literally sitting on the ground,
right? And all you have to do is like
kind of walk over 20 ft and pick it up
instead of having to climb the really
tall coconut tree to grab like a hard
coconut from like 50 feet up. And so
like there's so many watermelons on the
ground, just go out and like start
finding the biggest ones and attacking
those, right? And like um and what that
means is that like if we can build this
culture and I do think like it's a
learnable way of operating like I I I
really like to believe in like the like
the growth potential of like any human
right like and and uh any individual
like I think if you really have a growth
mindset that's why one of our like most
important core values is is growth
mindset right like if you really have
that growth mindset I think like
especially if you're willing to put in
the nights and weekends hours or in my
case like I'm literally telling people
like take a full day off, take a full
week off and learn this stuff like you
can, you know, become more fluent uh in
this way and I think then what we get is
like a team that can just go and work on
more things in a much more leveraged and
fast way, right? So I like to think like
you know people who are willing to jump
on the train are just going to become
more and more effective and it's not
like oh like as a PM my role is becoming
entirely irrelevant, right? Like no, it
means that as a PM you need to start
looking more like a hybrid PM prototyper
who has some good design sensibilities
and by the way like I think some of the
best edge PM and design cultures
respectively over the past even few
decades have always been
multi-disiplinary in nature right like
the original PM spec at Google required
the PMs to actually be somewhat
technical so they could understand the
engineering you know kind of um
limitations of of like the product, you
know, designs they wanted to make and
they had to be kind of designy, right?
Like um I remember my my co-founder
Andrew when he was in the ATM program
was like always reading books about like
design
like even down to like visual design and
color theory and that kind of thing,
right? Um, and so I think it's just a
reminder that you know like designers as
well like the you know some of the best
designers if you're a designer at Apple
like you know including hardware
designer like you have to understand
some of the technical capabilities of
how this stuff works right um and if
you're an engineer like I think some of
the best engineers and maybe Stripe
always had a very good engineering
culture of engineers who could think
about the product and business
requirements and in fact like you know
on any given product group uh at Shri my
understanding is that like you know the
DRRI isn't always the PM, right? Um,
like as is traditionally the case in in
kind of that that triangle. It's like,
you know, sometimes it's actually the
engineer who's taking the product lead
and saying like this is what we need to
build.
>> So what I'm hearing is essentially if
you want like the trend across product
engineering and design is each of those
functions needs to get good at one of
the other functions at least. Yeah,
>> ideally you can do them all, but if if
you can just do one additional, so a PM
becomes better at design, an engineer
becomes better at product management.
>> Well, I would actually go further and
say like I think you need to get like
decently good at all three. Like there's
just a minimum baseline of like if
you're any one of those roles, you need
to be like minimally good at the other
two. And then you can go deeper into
your own kind of specialty, right? like
you know you could be a designer who's
really good at thinking about UX and
interaction design and then just like
good enough to be dangerous on thinking
about like what's technically possible
and like what is the product you know
kind of you know kind of story around
this this uh feature
>> I love that and to do that one piece of
advice that comes up again again in what
you're what you've been describing is
using use the tools constantly to see
what's possible and that will teach you
a lot of these things
>> I think use well use the tools gives you
exposure to what's possible, right? It's
kind of like if you wanted to be a great
industrial designer and let's say like I
mean the chair is kind of the ultimate
like hello world of like industrial
design, right? It's like the the like
canonical design object like you would
just sit there in a vacuum and with no
familiarity with like the materials that
you can use, plywood, steel, whatever or
like existing form factors of chairs
trying to invent the world's best chair
in a vacuum, right? like you should go
and first do a study of like all of the
best chairs out there today. Like go
look at an EMS chair, sit in it and like
try to examine it to kind of reverse
engineer how it was made, right? And
like you know and and um just look at
the prior art for that type of product.
Like that's how I see the go out and
play with these products. And also I
think like actually going and designing
or implementing or executing is the best
practice. So like you can't just only go
and look at other people's shares. Like
eventually you have to go and like
actually try building your own and then
try building another one and another one
and another one. And so I think that's
where like you know when I think about
how I honed my own product UX
sensibilities like I never like I mean
you know and at that time like that I
was in in uh school and and kind of
learning about this stuff like there
wasn't really any good curriculum for
UX, right? It's not like there were like
great you know college classes to learn
product UX. I mean even CS was like very
academic in nature at that time. It
wasn't applied software engineering like
build an app or whatever. Um maybe now
at like some of the schools like
Stanford, MIT, they have like actually
UXy type courses, but it's it's still a
rarity for most people to have access to
that. And so like the way I learned like
all of my product sensibilities was just
like trial and error and like also using
and studying other products, right? And
then going and trying to build like my
own weekend project ideas, right? Oh, I
want to build like a Yelp style app with
a map view and then also a list view.
And I want it so that when when you pan
around in the map for it to
automatically update the list view and
maybe there's some UX improvements I can
make on top of that. But I can also like
test my technical skills to to figure
out like which parts of this are hard to
implement and like how do you make it
work and what are some of the design
changes or affordances that you can use
to kind of like map to like the
technical possibilities
>> to do that. I loved your piece of advice
which I forgot to double down on which I
also find really powerful. The best tip
there is find something to actually
build that is useful to you and fun.
Like pick a project that's like, okay,
this would be fun to do. Have like a
problem you're solving that forces you
to actually do this thing.
>> For sure. And look, I think that can be
like night and weekend projects. It can
also be like the daytime job projects,
right? I mean like I am basically
telling our teams on the AI platform um
uh group especially like look like you
know in that that lowh hanging fruit
metaphor it's like I'm not being
prescriptive with you on like which
watermelons you should pick but like you
should go and like and and we do have
different like pods within that group
but one of them for instance is uh what
we call the field agents team and they
are responsible for the agents that work
within your app. So this is not the
agent that builds your app, but these
agents that run on a customer's behalf
to do like web research on your
customers or they can you know go and
analyze a document um and like in the
future maybe do things like actually
generate a like prototype like of of a
uh of a feature you know from a purity
or from like a feature idea. Uh and you
know I'm telling them like look like
there's a almost infinite number of
things you could like superpowers you
can give these field agents. I'm not
going to tell you which specifically to
do. Now, you can ask me to weigh in for
sure, but like you should go and like,
you know, just experiment and prototype
like a few different versions of like a
few different directions we could go.
What if you prototyped what it would
look like to have a deep research
implementation in field agent so that
like for any given row of data let's say
in your case it's podcast guests you can
just click a button or click a button on
mass across the entire like every
speaker you have lined up to do deep
research like powered by chap GPT's own
deep research on each of the speakers
and have them all laid out side by side
in this table right like go prototype
that and see how like you know see how
it feels and looks like and so I think
some of the stuff can also like in your
daytime job, especially if that daytime
job is literally to go and build AI
functionality.
>> I actually tried to do exactly that. The
problem I ran into, I wonder if it's
changed, is there's no API for uh for
chat GPT deep research yet.
>> There is now there is now
ends up being uh and I think they only
recently exposed it. It ends up being
like something on the order of like a
dollar plus per research call, which a
deal.
>> Like I mean to again exactly I mean some
people would say, "Oh my god, that's so
expensive." and you rack up 50 of those,
you've cost $50 a month. I think it's
like, well, it just saved you like hours
of research by a human. Like,
>> not only that, I I actually have a
researcher that I pay to he'll give me
background on guests that was like four
or 500 bucks and the dollar sounds
great. And I
>> He manually smart. He would be using
deep research and just collecting.
>> They might be they might just be
>> Oh, man. Okay. There's one more uh skill
I wanted to talk about real quick. This
comes up a lot
>> in these conversations is eval.
>> Okay.
>> The power of getting good at eval.s. I
know that's something you value highly.
Talk about just why you think this is
something people need to get good at.
>> Yeah. I mean um and I listen to your
your uh your episodes with uh with and
Mike uh who talk about this. I think
it's like
>> interesting that like um you know like
both heads of open eye and anthropic uh
you know have converged on on this
point. I mean, look, I think um I I
would add like a a slightly different or
additive take though, which is like I
think um for a completely novel product
experience or form factor, you should
actually not start with Evals and you
should start with Vibes, right? Meaning
like you know you you need to go and
just kind of test in a much more
open-ended way like like does this even
work like you know in in kind of like a
broad sense. So like as an example for
our custom code generation capability
like instead of defining evals that get
repeatably tested you know as you vary
like the prompt or the model or like the
the agentic workflow used to generate
the these outputs and you have to define
like you know what does good look like
right by definition for the eval like I
would first start with a much more
open-ended and like ad hoc style of like
just throw stuff against the wall like
try different prompts and see how well
it does. And to me, eval are more useful
a once you've converged on the kind of
like basic scaffold of the form factor
and you kind of know what are the use
cases you want it to work well for and
what you want to test against it.
Whereas in the early days, especially if
if your product market fit finding
either for an entirely new company or
for like a new a pretty dramatically new
or bold new capability that doesn't
really have like it's not an incremental
improvement on something that exists in
Air Table today. Like I think you have
to just be a little bit more creative
initially and like throwing stuff at it,
seeing what works to understand. Okay,
like let's use an example. You know, we
we're implementing this new capability
that can use uh basically a longunning
AI crawler agent that goes and
researches the web, you know, for a
specific type of object or entity,
right? So, it's a little bit different
from deep research. It's similar to deep
research, but what it actually does is
instead of outputting like a, you know,
kind of a report, it's actually going
and compiling a list of things. The
things could be companies or people. um
or or anything else, right? Like find me
every Marvel movie, right? Ever made.
Find me every like um you know, kind of
DC comics like uh spin-off, right? Like
series, right? Um literally anything.
And you know, you have to go in and
first like just try out a bunch of
random like, you know, use your own
brain to think of like what are all the
like what's the range of use cases I can
test this against, right? And then you
get back some results and you're like
okay well like it's clear that like
where it does really well are these
types of searches right like people and
companies with this kind of parameter
and I think to me like eval are useful
once you have like a sense of like what
is that cluster of useful use cases you
can start then more um like um uh
programmatically like measuring the
changes that you're making to improve
like the the uh the the output for that,
right? Um, but like by that point,
you've probably already scoped the
product and maybe the way we would
merchandise it in the the in air table
is not like a completely open-ended
capability, but like hey, like here is a
specific capability that can research
one of these x number of uh entity types
including people in companies and here's
even like the filter conditions or
criteria that are more explicit that you
can define to give it the prompting to
to search for that thing, right? But I
kind of think it's it's more useful as a
way to iterate your way to improvement.
Um, and you can start, you know, really
testing stuff like empirically, right?
You can AB test, especially if you have
the scale of a really large product like
Interthropic or OpenAI. You can like
just test everything and and see like,
oh, this model actually performs better
than this one. This performs better than
this one. Um, but I think early on like
you don't have that luxury and you're in
a much more open-ended discovery
process.
>> That is very wise. EVLs can constrain
you too early. I think about just the
double diamond I don't know ideo kind of
framework of like be conver divergent
first and then converge and then maybe
exactly uh I hadn't heard that before
but um that that uh completely
resonates.
>> Okay, let me try to reflect back some of
the advice I've been hearing about how
to shift a company to be successful in
this new world and let me see if I'm
missing anything that you think is
really important. So one is there's this
sense of just like reset the
expectations on pace and urgency
>> and help people understand in AI things
move incredibly fast. This is how we
need to operate. And then there's also a
piece of get stuff out so that you can
learn how people use it and what it's
capable of versus polishing it
endlessly. Mhm.
>> Um forcing people almost I don't know if
forcing is the right word but
encouraging people to play with the
latest stuff and like giving them chance
to take days off to or block out
calendars, cancel meetings, just like
stay on top of the stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh to play as you talked about it and
then sharing things they've learned, get
the vibes of what's possible.
>> There's also this idea of just rethink
okay if we were to start today in this
world, what would we do to achieve the
same mission we have achieved? we are
trying to achieve and ideally it
leverages this unfair advantage we have
with things we've been working on for a
long time and then there's just like
talk to AI constantly every hour script
>> yeah multiple times an hour
>> multiple times an hour keeps going up um
is there anything else that I missed
there that you're like this is you need
to do this too to be really to have a
chance
>> I think just to really really try to
break down ro silos like and I think
that's true certainly for EPD um in the
typical like um you know EPD triangle
but I also think it's it's probably true
even for like non product roles right
like I think um it's true in marketing
right like I'm seeing you know something
uh you know something I'm really pushing
for in marketing I think our marketing
team is like you know really leaning
into actually is um is like you know if
you can just do all of the thing
yourself like traditionally you know how
a marketing team might operate is like
okay you have one person who's kind of
responsible for executing the
performance marketing, you know, kind of
part of a campaign, right? Like they
literally go into the Google Adwords
interface and they're like tweaking the
parameters of targeting and, you know,
budget and like, you know, kind of
conversion uh tracking, etc. And and
then somebody else is actually
responsible for like coming up with the
specific ad copy, right? And somebody
else yet was responsible for coming up
with like the seed content or
positioning, you know, guide like
written by a PMM that feeds into the ad
creative and, you know, so on and so
forth, right? like maybe they're
promoting some like new demo asset,
right? Uh that somebody else yeah
created. And I just think that like you
know in the same way that you can
collapse the roles in EPD and like the
ideal person maybe they they're very
specially uh you know specialized and
deep in one dimension like engineering
um but they're well-rounded enough to
kind of like be dangerous on the other
two like I think that's kind of true in
almost every other function right like
you know like sales as well like I think
you should you know start to be able to
play more of an SE role like
traditionally sales people um didn't
necessarily know the product that well
and like you know kind of relied on the
SE to come in and be the product experts
like I think it's really hard to sell
any kind of AI product now without
actually being fluent in the product and
be able to demo the product right so
like you know uh AEES need to be like SE
fluent as well so I just think that that
concept of like collapsing roles um you
know everybody needs to like become more
full stack to do the thing like being
more outcome oriented right like your
outcome as an AE is to like show
customers, you know, convince customers
of the value of your product and close
deals, right? Okay. Well, in order to do
that, like you used to have dependencies
on having assets created by marketing
and like, you know, an SE to help you
demo like can you collapse more of those
dependencies so that if you had to, you
could do it all yourself, right? Um, and
I just think that's a new way like it's
a new operating mentality overall for
every AI native company or company that
wants to compete in this new arena.
>> That is that is a great addition. It
almost feels like you go back to startup
times when everyone's doing a bunch of
stuff. There's no like here's the head
of product, here's the head of
engineering, just we're just doing stuff
to be done.
>> Totally.
>> Yeah. Um, I'm kind of seeing it as this
like upside down T where there's like
the thing you're really strong at and
then you just have to as you describe
the minimum of being good at engineering
design or and SE by the way sales
engineering imagine is what that stands
for um that you just like there adjacent
roles you need to start having a
baseline the baseline is increasing of
how much you need to understand that
everyone's ven diagrams are kind of
converging exactly amazing
okay let me take a step back and kind of
zoom out and think about the broader
journey you've been on over the past
decade plus. Let me just ask you this.
What's what's the most counterintuitive
lesson you've learned about building Air
Table, building a company, building
teams that maybe goes against common
startup wisdom?
>> You know, I I heard um uh you know, your
interview with with Brian Chesky and
then later you talked about founder mode
um in in that kind of YC retreat and the
points there really really resonated
with me. um you know and I I feel like
uh maybe less eloquently I kind of like
deduced you know some of the same
principles just just in my own
experience which is like I think um when
you're scaling up and this relates also
to what we talked about before around
like the early days of building a
company you're like in the details
you're finding product market fit you
kind of have to be like you know pretty
versatile right like you know all these
decisions from a technical standpoint to
design to even commercial and like
what's the premium model going to be
like and like you know how are we going
to market this product, what does the
website look like? Like they're all very
intertwined, right? You can't like
compartmentalize and then like, you
know, almost like factory produce, you
know, kind of each of these things
separately. Like you they're all
intertwined, right? And you have a very
small tight-knit team that's like a
tight-knit team that's thinking full
stack about all of this combined. And
you know, obviously like that's the only
way in my opinion to create like that
that magical product market fit in the
first place. And then I think as you
scale up you know the default guidance
that you often get from you know like
operational experts and and you know
kind of like larger scale you know kind
of uh uh company investors is like okay
you got to kind of industrialize the
process of all of this stuff right it's
kind of it's kind of like going from
like a bespoke artisal like one person
made an entire you know item of clothing
to like we got to like factory produce
this thing right and you know what that
means in a organizational context is
like You then create these different
FIFO dums. You hire all these exacts and
like you know each exec kind of like
just manages their own swim lane and
there's relatively looser coupling
between all of those different groups,
right? So you got sales kind of
executing on its own thing. Marketing is
executing on its own thing. Product's
executing on its own thing rather and
even within product there's different
product groups and surface areas that
are each kind of executing on their own
thing. And you know, using the factory
metaphor, like there's there's an
argument that that's actually kind of an
efficient way to scale up production for
each of these different swim lanes,
right? Like each one can kind of
operate, you know, like in a in a more
autonomous and like, you know, purely
like scale up, you know, focus kind of
wait. How do we produce more of this
thing if the thing happens to be within
one product group improving search?
That's our main focus. we're just going
to, you know, go and ship ship ship more
stuff to improve search and, you know,
so there it's not completely crazy like,
you know, why why people give this
advice, but I think what you lose is the
magical integrative value of holistic
thinking, right? And and making the
bigger picture bets, right? Right. And I
think Brian talked a lot about this on
his episode with you, which is like
look, like in in a company that is
really serious about product, first of
all, like, you know, uh I really liked
his point about like the CEO has to play
a CPO role, right? Um you have to care
about the product. Like ultimately, like
the product is the thing, right? And you
can't just coast on scaling up go to
market around the product forever. Like
you got to keep innovating on the
product. And by the way, the best way to
it innovate on the product is not
incrementally split over all these
different, you know, different little
service areas, but actually to have like
a bigger, you know, kind of more step
function vision of how this product
needs to make a leap, right? Or what's
the next big like, you know, kind of
either act of the product or new
capability of the product uh or
reinvention of the product, right? And
so like I think if you really care about
doing that from a product execution
standpoint and almost like refinding new
product market fit on a regular basis
like I think it necessitates a
completely different operating and
leadership model throughout the
organization and all of the stuff we
just talked about in terms of how to
operate in the AI native era. I think
it's actually exactly the same as how
you need to operate in this like
constant product market refinding of fit
uh state. So like I could not agree more
with with that concept of you know kind
of you got to you know think ambitiously
and move the organization holistically
towards these bigger outcomes but also
like ship and learn and experiment a lot
more in this era. And then you know
maybe the meta learning I had from all
of the above is that like you know the
specific advice obviously was like okay
go scale up in this way or go hire these
types of people experienced operators
etc. Now obviously there's some truth to
that right like you know the people
giving this advice are not incompetent
uh you know they had some reason for
getting it and in certain context it
that is the right thing to do but I
think like my meta learning is you know
it's it's not uh enough to just like
trust the recommendation like here's the
action you should take from a lot of
people because everybody has different
priors and it's almost like we're all
our own LMS right and like we all have
different training from a different
corpus of data informed our own
experiences and maybe you're trained on
like the like you know kind of service
now or the you know kind of a Oracle you
know kind of um you know training corpus
right and you know this person's trained
on the Facebook corpus and I'm trained
on like you know the air table one right
and I think what I've tried to do more
and more is like not to just like ignore
advice from smart people like obviously
that's not the right answer but like to
kind of take their it's almost like um
in an LLM uh you can now like with a
reasoning model like actually inspect
the chain of thought, right? Like and
and uh see how it's thinking, why did it
come up with this answer, right? And to
me that like chain of thought like why
did you recommend this is actually more
informative than the actual like just do
this recommendation, right? So the
answer might be like hey like you know
at so and so company this is how we
eliminated the PM role entirely, right?
For for Brian like at Airbnb like made
sense like we're no longer having PMs in
their traditional form. Now we have
program managers and product marketers
and but like more than the actual
decision because I don't think it's a
one-sizefits-all like everybody should
do the same. Why did you do that? Right?
And the why actually was very
informative and then be able to take
that and say like okay like how would I
apply that and maybe it yields a
different outcome but the reasoning
actually is very uh informative.
>> It's interesting how this idea founder
mode is not so different from this ICE
>> trend that you're following and it's
Yeah. Yeah, it's like being in the
weeds, being in the details, trying
things yourself, not delegating to
execs.
>> Yeah. You know, and and like um I think
anything taken to an extreme can be
problematic, right? So like there is a
world where like you know, you are so in
the details and in every detail that
you're basically just micromanaging and
you're you're kind of creating like the
euphemism for that. And that's not
really what founder mode is about,
right? That's not like the the Brian
conceptual founder mode is to like
micromanage everything and like not
trust anyone. Uh but I think it's more
about like finding that right balance of
being unabashed about caring about the
details that do matter and where the
tying together of details across
different groups or departments actually
is the only way to yield a
non-incremental outcome because
otherwise each person is just optimizing
within their own domain, right? But
you'll never get to the global maxima or
the global breakthrough. Um and you know
I think um like
the really cool thing about uh you know
CEOs as IC's and frankly any leader
playing more of an IC like role and
being in the details is I think for the
right type of person it's it's actually
more fun that way right like I mean to
be honest like for me like the the times
where I felt most
um disintermediated from like what I
felt was like the substance of this
company was when I thought that I I was
almost like, you know, forcing myself to
step away from the details because I I
thought that's like what, you know, a
atscale CEO was supposed to do, right?
Like I mean, there there's, you know,
some like, you know, famous CEOs who
have talked about like the the less
decisions I can make the better, right?
Like the less details I'm exposed to,
the better, right? Like I just want to
inspect at the topmost layer how this
business is running and if the
everything underneath it is going
smoothly, then like I'm able to do that,
right? And everything looks good. And I
just think that's a maybe again it works
in a certain type of very mature type of
business like you know even then though
like I can't imagine that like at a CPG
company like in Proctor and Gamble you
wouldn't want to have a CEO who still
actually goes and tastes the soup and
like tries the products and sees like
literally the details of like what the
new product innovation pipeline looks
like um as well as like how it's being
experienced on the shelves and so on
like so I don't know I guess um like I
guess I'm just more and more skeptical
that that like hands-off, you know, pure
delegation,
uh, you know, and process management
role ever works as a CEO. Like maybe
maybe you just like you go through a
long enough period of like where the
business is coasting that like nobody
notices. But I got to say like for me
like it's just much more invigorating to
get to play that role. And I think for
for the um types of operators and
leaders that I most admire, like it's
it's like that's what makes the job
interesting. like they don't want to
have like a automated away you know kind
of role as a leader.
>> If you could go back in time and whisper
something in a decade ago Howie's ear
that would have saved you a lot of pain
and suffering over the last decade what
would that be? Don't step away from the
details that both you love. Like I mean
first of all like if your passion is
like building product and product design
even if it feels like at times the
company needs to do all this other stuff
like scale up you know go to market and
operations and like just have like a
large people organization that itself
creates a lot of um you know kind of uh
you know need to to do things and manage
and like there becomes a new job
invented just to like manage a larger
group of people Right. Um, and like you
know, obviously you're going to have to
do some of that. You can't just
completely eskeew all your
responsibility as like an atscale CEO.
Uh but like don't lose the like the the
essence of like the thing that you love
doing and that you know had like really
made this product happen uh and gives
you know this company as many companies
that like were were founded on like a
you know kind of a magical product
market fit finding insight. Don't like
step too far away from that, right? And
always make sure that is still your like
number one. Even if like other stuff has
to also add to your plate.
>> I think people don't talk enough about
this how someone starts a company that's
an idea they have they're excited about,
it takes off and then you're stuck on
that for a long time and then even if
things are pushed in a direction you're
not as excited about. And so this point
about just remembering what you actually
love about it and coming back to that is
so important because that's the only way
to keep doing this for for a long time.
I I I think that's so true. And to me,
that's why there's always been a
difference between entrepreneurs who
love the the act of building a product
or, you know, the business too versus
those who saw a you know, just purely
business or financial opportunity that
they felt like they couldn't pass up
exploiting or or going after. And look,
no knock on people who are more the
latter and like there's entire
industries where like it's all just
about alpha generation, right? Like you
know, you could go into the private
equity business and and so on. Um and
it's just purely it's it's rationally
about like how do I find the alpha? And
I think that like you know the some of
the best companies um product centric
companies at least in my opinion are
like you know run by those people who
like actually just love the product,
right? I think you get a feel for that
from some of the AI companies like Sam
like I think genuinely just loves like
working on AI, right? Like if he could
spend a 100% of his time on like just
being close to the AI and the research,
I mean he would and he's even said as
much, right? Like um you know, but but
ranging to like the Brians with Airbnb
like like it's pretty clear, you know,
uh that, you know, people like this are
not motivated like Airbnb was not
founded because like oh my god, we want
to make a lot of money off this like
arbitrage opportunity against hotels.
They just needed to pay their rent.
>> Yeah. Well, that that and like I think
they loved the the product and I think
they also loved the way in which they
built the product, right? Like you know
the design centric nature of that
product and company and culture like you
know and and that's what gives you like
the continued joy of of uh working on
you know what could be the same company
for a very long time.
>> Howie, is there anything else that you
wanted to touch on or leave listeners
with before we get to our very exciting
lightning round? I I just want to
reiterate um you know especially for for
listeners here who who uh are in you
know an EP or D role and especially in
the P role like you know I really do
believe that this is not a like you
either have it or you don't like in
terms of the skill set needed to be
relevant in AI native but I do think
like it's a call to action to go and and
bolster your skill sets where where uh
you know where where they may be you
know less refined right now right like I
think everyone like even programming I
really believe like everyone could learn
how to be a software engineer if they
wanted to. Now like obviously like some
people just as with like great writers
are never going to be like you know a
published author, right? Or like you
know the the Hemingway, right? Uh but
like everyone can gain a good enough
proficiency of software engineering if
they really wanted to. You could take
that boot camp, you could do like some
like you know coding uh you know kind of
exercises on on the side um etc. And the
point there is that like you know
sometimes I think we treat these
disciplines like you know hard hard
skills that like if you're not already
if you're already halfway into your
career and you're not already an
engineer if you're not already a
designer like okay well you can never be
one. And I just think like you know our
brains are malleable. I think there's a
lot of great curriculum out there to
learn and and you know a lot of it like
I said just comes down to also like
trial and error and like building
projects maybe nights and weekends
projects uh even um to learn uh this
stuff but like everyone can learn how to
be a versatile you know kind of unicorn
like product engineer designer hybrid in
the AI native era and and like the only
thing stopping you is like just going
out and doing it. That is a really
empowering way to end it. And I just to
double down on that, it's never been
easier to learn these things. Like there
are super intelligences that you can
talk to that do a lot like as they're
building can help you learn. I mean like
I literally I mean I go into chachki
sometimes and I ask it like you know
just like hey like how would you build
this app? Like or you know like I'm just
curious. I'm like like how would you
build Manis right like the the agent
open-ended agent? Like literally how
would you build it? You can ask it
questions and it's like having like an
amazing brilliant software architect,
software engineer, product manager,
designer, expert, tutor that you can
literally like there's no dumb question.
They have infinite patience. They're
literally on and awake like 247. Like it
is the most incredible time to like
learn this stuff to your point. And then
of course like the interactive tools to
go and actually build stuff like anyone
can download cursor and just start like
asking composer to generate some code
for you and then looking at the code and
trying to figure out what it does. And
you know it to your point like it you
know when I think back to the earliest
era that I experienced of building apps
like you know first I learned C++ then I
learned PHP and JavaScript and like even
like building you know kind of
JavaScript like single page apps in the
early days like 08 you know through 2010
like it was a dark dark art. I mean
there were some like you just had to
like go and like learn some of these
things. There wasn't great like, you
know, tutorials for it. You know, you
had to reverse engineer certain things.
Like there were just like weird things
like if you wanted rounded corners in
your UI, you literally took Photoshop,
opened it up, created like a rounded
corner and pixels, and then cut pixel up
into an image that you dropped onto the
page at exactly the right position to be
at the edge of like a box. Like crazy
stuff, right? I mean, everything was
like so much more arcane at the time.
And now it's just it feels so much more
fluid and accessible. And like the gap
between the arcane tech that you have to
wade through to build something has just
been minimized so much. It's like the
the effort and like abstraction between
you and like the magical delightful
actual building of the thing that you
want has been so minimized. So it's
never been a more exciting time to be a
builder.
>> You remember spacer.gif.
Uh,
>> it's like to create like to line stuff
you just
>> know I remember invisible one pixel
thing that you just stick in places.
>> Yeah. Yeah. No, I don't.
>> Oh my god, what a time to be alive. Uh,
Howie, with that, we've reached our very
exciting lightning round. I've got five
questions for you. Are you ready?
>> Yes.
>> Here we go. What are two or three books
you find yourself recommending most to
other people?
>> You know, I I've um I've been trying to
read fiction more. Um, partly because I
think it's just like a really nice
mental reset. Uh, I will say like Three
Body Problem like for anyone who hasn't
read it, like it's it's a mind expanding
book. Like I like sci-fi and and fiction
that like kind of opens your brain. So
maybe this is my cheat card, but uh you
know it's a threebook series. Those are
those are three great books.
>> I love that series. And my tip there is
it gets good uh one and a half books in
is my tip. So just keep reading. That's
where it's like, okay, now I'm in.
>> I liked even the first one. Um but I do
like it. I felt like it was like
inception where every book, every
subsequent book was like you dropped
into another like you you incepted into
like another layer, right?
>> Awesome. Okay. What's a favorite recent
movie or TV show you've really enjoyed?
>> TV show. I just started watching the
studio. Um the it's like uh the Seth
Roan Rogan Roan.
>> Yeah. So stressful. Yeah, it is very
stressful and you know I just kind of
like I mean Silicon Valley was like too
close to home um when it came out. So
like I watched it but it was like just
cringey. The studio is kind of fun to
watch cuz like it's it's it's a little
bit of that like inside baseball of uh
of Hollywood uh and yet like I'm not in
Hollywood so it's like entertaining to
watch and uh it's just you know it's
it's a I thought smart and uh funny
show. Um, and you know, because I split
time between LA and SF, like I also feel
like it's uh it's very real to me. I see
a lot of the like literal characters out
there in the world that that uh it's
characterizing.
>> Do you have a favorite product you
recently discovered they really love?
Could be an app, could be a gadget,
could be a clothing.
>> So, okay. So, I I'll give uh two uh
because I feel like I have to I have to
say some kind of software product,
right? Um, I mean I um I'm a really big
fan of Runway uh the product and the
company. Um I just think like you know
every like new model uh they come out
with uh they just came out with with a
new one just I think like two days ago
uh that gives even more like controls
and refinement on like creating exactly
the video scene that you want. And so
like I think just the photo realism um
in in what you can generate now and like
they also built this like cool demo
thing that's like an immersive world
generator I mentioned before like I
think um it's just cool to see uh I also
like the underdog story and like clearly
like Google's gunning gunning in the
space uh has V3 and so on and like you
know as open AI but like I love the
underdog story of this like subund
person company still punching above
their weight and building like really
awesome you know uh video experiences
right so that's the software And then a
very very uh kind of nerdy um uh real
world uh answer on product is I kind of
just recently got into like this whole
um cottage industry of artisally
produced uh you know basically clothing
you know by like smallcale like Japanese
manufacturers that use like like
literally like hundred-year-old looms to
to make clothes like the oldfashioned
way like you know or or the oldfashioned
industrial way right like they have
these like loop wheeler machines and
they spin the cloth in like a very slow
pace. So, it's completely impractical
from like a production scale standpoint.
Um, but you know, I just like I've
gotten like some of these t-shirts and
they like I just love the um no, I
guess, you know, in a world where it
feels like everything is becoming so
much uh faster moving and like you know
even tech from 5 years ago is obsolete.
Uh, like I love a little bit of the
throwback to like, you know, old things
sometimes can be even more cherishable
in this new era, right? Uh, so like
maybe that makes me a hipster, but like
I I love the um, you know, the uh, the
vintage, the retro uh, increasingly
these days.
>> I feel like anything that starts with
artisal, small batch Japanese is going
to be really good stuff.
>> Is there is there a brand you want to
share that is that or is this like you
want to keep it under the radar? Um
actually so Self Edge which actually has
a a storefront like the main storefront
is uh on Valencia Street in SF. Um they
carry a lot of these items and like
that's kind of their whole MMO and they
have like jeans and like t-shirts. So
I've gotten a lot I mean they they
basically curate a really good selection
of different actual makers. Like one of
them is called Studio Darton. Um another
one's called uh actually it's cool.
There's this company uh called uh I
think that the um umbrella company is
actually just Toyo to yo manufacturing
uh which sounds like it's a big like you
know kind of like largecale conglomerate
but it's anything but it's like a really
smallcale uh Japanese um you know kind
of like vintage uh manufacturer of
clothing and but they have a few
subbrands. They actually bought the
rights to this um like American postwar
brand that was kind of like Hannes like
one of the like big like four or five
like you know kind of um men's wear like
you know kind of undershirts and
athletic wear uh brands called
Whitesville. I don't know where the name
came from but um you know it it uh it
basically it's a bunch of like basic
clothing like t-shirts etc. And uh and
they this Japanese indie company
basically bought the like defunct you
know basically name um you know and and
now like is reproducing clothes almost
made to the exact shape and spec and
even with like the exact recreation of
like the graphic packaging on these uh
TE's um but like you know today right so
I just think there's something really
funny and ironic about like you know
they've taken like an American post-war
aesthetic and literal hand, but like
it's actually like a indie, you know,
smallcale Japanese manufacturing uh
approach to to uh to making those
clothes.
>> I feel like we just tapped into what
could be a whole other podcast
conversation about clothing and
craftsmanship, but let's I'm going to
pull us out of that
>> the next uh franchise
>> or just Howie and Lenny talking about
clothing.
>> Um okay, two more questions. Yeah.
>> Do you have a life motto that you often
find useful in worker life? share with
friends or family. I I stumbled on this
uh this this guy um Paul Ki who I think
uh he's an MD but also like a
psychologist and um he has a book uh you
know but also like he did this long form
podcast with uh with Andrew Huberman and
um you know he actually ends up talking
a lot about like just how to think about
like your life outlook and like kind of
your framework for thinking about life
but grounded in a kind of like
scientific and like you know kind of
neurological
um and and cognitive science uh basis
and you know I found one particular
point really really powerful it stuck
with me which is like you know if you
live your life in a way that's you know
foundationally built around humility and
gratitude right um and and look like you
know everybody has different
circumstances like you know I think like
I I fully own that like you know even So
you know I didn't come for money like my
family was was very very financially
modest like growing up like I still had
incredible resources and opportunities
adv you know afforded to me uh even just
by virtue of growing up in the US right
being born in and growing up in the US
like you know uh but also like having
access to a computer and the internet
and like even all the free resources I
could then access and learn about from
there but um you know like I I still
feel like you know whatever you have or
don't have to start with like if you
kind of approach the world and and you
know kind of the future with a spirit of
humility and gratitude rather than I
guess the opposite of that. Um you know
it just I think I've felt like it it
makes like it kind of like becomes a
self-fulfilling prophecy, right? Like
you know you're you're you're
open-minded, you're kind of grateful and
then like more opportunities actually
come your way, right? And maybe it's
because of the energy you're putting out
into the world and you know and other
people and like you're kind of
attracting like you know good
opportunities and good people and good
things. Uh but I you know I think like
you know there's a lot of other parts of
like his framework but like the one that
you know is easiest to remember is just
like how do I approach each day even if
like I'm going through a tough moment
and you know we had to like you know I
had to fire somebody today or maybe like
you know I got disappointed because we
lost a customer deal or something broke
or whatever you know. um you know but
like to still try to look at the entire
situation from an overall you know uh
feeling of of humility and gratitude I
think just really does shift your your
like you know it it spills over into
everything else um for that day and
maybe even for like you know the the
whole uh lifetime
>> that uh super resonates that is really
powerful advice that's hard to
internalize but important
>> yeah um easily said hard to uh practice
>> yeah uh where can folks find you? What
should they know about Air Table? And
how can listeners be useful to you?
>> Okay, so uh I am on Twitter, Howy TL. Um
I don't post that much. Uh but I am a
I'm a lurker so I listen uh and and
watch and you can always DM me there. Um
you can also email me directly howie
airtable.com anytime if you have ideas,
feedback, etc. Um you know on Air Table
like just go try it. Like the whole
point is we want to make this an
experiential product, right? Like you
know that's why we're we're really
leaning into the PLG roots. We talked
about like the homepage literally says
like just start building right now. What
do you want to build? Go. Like it starts
building and so use the product. Give me
feedback. Um and you know if you have
ideas of your own and and you want to
rip on them like I I love because my
passion is thinking about product and
like product UX especially in the AI era
if you're working on or in you know
thinking about something interesting in
that space like and even if it's just
purely to like riff on a concept like
that's that's something I enjoy doing
and maybe I get to learn and and sharpen
my own skill set from. So feel free to
reach out. Um and uh and yeah, I mean,
you know, tell your friends and family
to to try Air Table as well. Like that's
that's the uh main thing.
>> Sounds like you're looking for people to
nerd snipe you. And
>> yes,
>> Howie, thank you so much for being here.
>> Awesome. Thank you, Lenny. This was
>> Hi, everyone. Thank you so much for
listening. If you found this valuable,
you can subscribe to the show on Apple
Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite
podcast app. Also, please consider
giving us a rating or leaving a review
as that really helps other listeners
find the podcast. You can find all past
episodes or learn more about the show at
lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.